detroit-rdoc(5) - generate rdoc api documentation via detroit
=============================================================

## DESCRIPTION

The RDoc plug-in for Detroit utilizes the rdoc documentation
tool to generate API documentation for a project. It can also
be used to generate ri documentation file.

This plug-in package also includes detroit-ri(5).


## OPTIONS

The following options can be used in the Detroit assembly file
to define an RDoc service.

  * `title` - Title of documents. Defaults to general metadata title field.

  * `output` - Where to save rdoc files. The default is `doc/` or `.rdoc`
     if the ri format is beng used.

  * `format` - Documentation format. This defaults to `ENV['RDOC_FORMAT']`
     or 'darkfish'.

  * `template` - Template to use. Some formats support multiple templates.
     This defaults to `ENV['RDOC_TEMPLATE']`.

  * `main` - Main file.  This can be a file pattern. This default is matched
     to `README{,.*}`.

  * `files`/`include` - Which files to document. The default is `lib/`.

  * `exclude` - Paths to specifically exclude.

  * `ignore` - File patterns to ignore.

  * `adfile` - Ad file html snippet to add to html rdocs.

  * `extra` - Additional options passed to the `rdoc` command.


## EXAMPLES

Option defaults are fairly typical. So the simplest entry is something like:

    rdoc:
      output: doc/

A more complex example might look like:

    rdoc:
      title: MyApp API
      include:
         - lib
         - [A-Z]*.*
      ignore: 
        - '*.yml'
      output: site/api
      main: INTRO.rdoc
      format: hanna

To generate documentation files for `ri` command line tool set the
format to to `'ri'`.

    rdoc:
      title: MyApp API
      include: [lib]
      ignore: ['*.yml']
      output: .rdoc
      format: ri

The default output location when using the ri format is `.rdoc`.

The above examples use the YAML-base assembly format. Assembly
files can also be Ruby-based. See Detroit documentation for more
details.


## RESOURCES

  * [API Documentation](http://rubydoc.info/gems/detroit-rdoc)

  * [Development Site](http://github.com/detroit/detroit-rdoc)


## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2010 Thomas Sawyer, Rubyworks

Detroit RDoc is distributable in accordance with the GPLv3 license.


## SEE ALSO

detroit(1), rdoc(1), detroit-ri(5)
