detroit-ri(5) - generate ri documentation files via detroit
===========================================================

## DESCRIPTION

The RI plug-in for Detroit utilizes the rdoc documentation
tool to generate ri reference documentation for a project.

This plug-in is included with the `detroit-rdoc` package,
which also includes the detroit-rdoc(5) plug-in.


## OPTIONS

The following options can be used in the Detroit toolchain file
to define an RDoc tool instance.

  * `output` - Where to save rdoc files. The default is `.rdoc/`.

  * `files`/`include` - Which files to document. Defaults to `lib/`.

  * `exclude` - Paths to specifically exclude.

  * `ignore` - File patterns to ignore.

  * `extra` - Additional options passed to the `rdoc` command.


## EXAMPLES

Option defaults are very typical. So the simplest entry is simply:

    ri:
      active: true

A more complex example might look like:

    rdoc:
      title: MyApp API
      include: [lib, bin]
      ignore: ['*.yml']
      output: site/api
      main: INTRO.rdoc
      format: hanna

The above examples use the YAML-base assembly format. Assembly
files can also be Ruby-based. See Detroit documentation for more
details.


## RESOURCES

  * [API Documentation](http://rubydoc.info/gems/detroit-rdoc)

  * [Development Site](http://github.com/detroit/detroit-rdoc)


## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2010 Rubyworks

Detroit RDoc is distributable in accordance with the GPL v3 license.


## SEE ALSO

detroit(1), rdoc(1), detroit-rdoc(5)
